How FinTech can change a life?

Gabriela is a 26-year farmer who lives in the rural area of Monte Plata in the Dominican Republic. As a farmer, this girl has a business of harvesting mangoes to sell them in the market of Santo Domingo, the Dominican capital. This business is her primary source of income to be able to survive. However, it is challenging to prove to the Popular Bank that she subsists from this since Gabriela does everything informally because she does not have a company that can show this bank any document that allows her to access the financial services of this bank. 

Around 45% of the population is in the same situation as Gabriela in this country because financial institutions have many requirements to access their services. This situation does not let them access many services that are normal for a lot of us, like credit cards or bank accounts, which let us do many features as autopay's with credit cards of essential services, online payments, transfers and reception of money, borrow money and they are vulnerable to many limitations. 

Around 95% of the population has a smartphone in this country. That is why in 2022, a Canadian company called Decentralized, focused on the FinTech industry, provided a solution for this situation with an app named Mangú, which function with more than 100,000 ATMs provided by this company around the country to provide access to financial services without having a bank account, letting customers recharge their app balance on the ATMs and spent their balances as if they have a credit card.


Mangú functions in the following way, firstly, it registers the client with their name and address to provide them the nearest ATM to recharge balance. When the client goes to the ATM and recharges the balance after 5 minutes, it will reflect on their Mangú account, and the client will be able not just to receive and send the balance, also they can make online payments and use this balance like a credit card. Decentralized have agreements with the Dominican essential services companies to let their customers pay these services on autopay if they have balance, and they allow remittances receptions with the app.

A lot of Dominican banks like the Popular Bank, which does not let Gabriela and a big part of the population have access to their services, conflict with this company because they are afraid that the simplicity of the app and the success the company is having endanger their business but solving a big problem for almost half of the population, Decentralized have the support of the Dominicans. Instead of closing its doors as banks want, it maintains exponential growth and is changing the lives of millions of Dominicans.

Gabriela changed her life because now she can order online pesticides and all products that she bought locally to cultivate her mangoes. Mangú let her reduce more than 20% of the costs associated with her harvest, which is a plus because she can earn more money. Also, now she can sell her mangoes to different customers with an online store she made with the help of a friend and receive the payments via the Mangú app without moving from Monte Plata. 

It is incredible how FinTech can change the life of the unbanked population, letting them access the global market making online purchases for having best prices on their goods and services, this increment the quality of their lives. Additionally, it brings them a lot of opportunities on digital businesses to help them have a better future in their lives.
