PAYFIRMA, THE BEST SOLUTION FOR ACCEPTING DIGITAL PAYMENTS IN YOUR BUSINESS


Payfirma is a financial technology company that provides businesses with a multi-channel payment platform for mobile, e-commerce, and in-store payments. The company’s product offerings include both hardware and software solutions needed by companies to complete customer purchases.

Founded in 2011 by Michael Gokturk, Payfirma is headquartered at 1185 West Georgia Street, Suite 740, Vancouver, British Columbia V6E 4E6 and is a registered ISO of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Canadian Branch, Toronto, ON, Canada. 


In 2010, Michael Gokturk started Payfirma to help make it easier for people start and grow their own businesses. The company’s mission is to remove the pain out of receiving payments from customers. 


In 2014, it launched its automated recurring billing software, which allows businesses to charge their customers automatically on a continuous basis. Payfirma then released its invoicing services in 2016, followed by its next generation platform in 2017, which enables faster transaction management, enhanced design and usability, and access to additional payment methods.

Payfirma received $500k of seed funding from the Founder and CEO, Michael Gokturk. Later that year, the company raised an additional $1 million from Angel Investors. 


In 2012 and 2013, it raised $1 million and $3 million respectively from Angel Investors. In 2014, Payfirma issued $3 million in convertible notes and completed a Venture Round totaling $3 million. In 2015, the company received $13 million in financing from Dundee Capital Markets.

Payfirma is an payments company that helps businesses accept credit and debit cards online, in-stores, and on mobile devices. Over 8,000 businesses across North America use Payfirma's payment tools to get paid easily and keep all transaction data in one, simple place.


This company leverages an application program interface (API) to distribute its solutions. Businesses can utilize the API to seamlessly integrate payments into their app or software They use PHP, NGINX, CloudFlare, Bootstrap and MaxCDN for Application and Data. For utilities use Google Analytics, Mailgun, Mandrill and Optimizely. Also, on their business tools use WordPress, AdRoll, Salesforce Sales Cloud, Marketo and Olark.

Payfirma is in the payment/billing domain. This has been one of the most prosperous areas in the FinTech industry in the last few years. The payment/billing domain is changing the world, bringing to the business and customers a way to simplify the payments methods and bringing a lot of data that can be used to analyze the customer’s behavior, likes, and preferences.


The payment sector, in particular, has seen a steep increase in popularity over the past two decades. Research done by the International Journal of eBusiness Research in 2007 found that the primary motive for customers to adopt online payments was to meet payment deadlines and were more likely to do so on platforms with high levels of security.

Another significant transition was seen in the early 2010s when mobile payment apps emerged. A 2015 study found that user-friendliness and trust in online payment systems influenced consumers to adopt mobile payment. It is imperative that for an eCommerce company to be successful, it must be safe, reliable, accessible, and quick. Keeping these qualities in mind, here are our picks of the top fintech companies that are redefining the payment domain.


The principal competitors are:

1. WePay is an omnichannel distributor for payment process products and services.

2. Stripe: Stripe is a financial technology company that specifically focuses on facilitating payment
transactions for online businesses.

3. Paypal: Probably the most widely known online payment platform, PayPal revolutionized the way we pay for online shopping and provided a channel to seamlessly connect consumers and markets around the world.


Payfirma's payment solution keeps all transaction data in a simple-to-use dashboard, making it easy for businesses to grow by making smarter decisions about customers, products, and employees. The key metrics this company has used are being focused on how businesses can make payments with this software. It makes every business not have an excuse to process online payments for simplicity and facilities. The company is performing well relative to competitors because they have a large client base. It also allows businesses to see specific metrics for decision-making that other competitors do not provide.


I would recommend making strategic alliances with companies that process large amounts of transactions offering a customer loyalty program that gives a cashback of every transaction processed by Payfirma. This would help build customer loyalty in exchange for getting rewards. Additionally, this can help this company have more data of the leading products customers consume daily to bring them offers with these products to get more sales on specific business.


Another recommendation would be to process cryptocurrencies transactions only using blockchain networks with low fees as Tron, Solana, and Binance Smart Chain and design automation with different bridges across these blockchains to convert all the payments immediately to stable coins cryptocurrencies as DAI, UST, USDT, and USDC. They will significantly reduce costs on these transactions, and the business will not have excuses for receiving payments in cryptocurrencies because they will have the equivalent in dollars. Adding this to their API would make them more competitive because they can have a significant reduction on the transactions cost and get a lot of data that can help them better know and understand the needs not only of the businesses that accept Payfirma payments but also of the users who pay with said platform.


The use of smart contracts technology on different blockchains to process the cryptocurrencies payments with low fees would be necessary, and to convert these payments to stable coins, the use of bridges compatible with these blockchains. Python would be an excellent tool for this automation; it can also be used for the customer loyalty program to analyze the customers and the business data. With this data analysis, Payfirma can program functions that allow customers to have rewards for each purchase made and explore the behavior of each one to offer them products that follow their tastes and preferences.

These technologies are appropriate to the solution because, firstly, it will be an automated process that can provide tremendous growth opportunities to the company compared to the cost it may have. Also, they can help a lot to gain more customers and more business to the Payfirma platform, which can represent a significant increase in incomes. These technologies will be monetizable and allow this company to be more competitive.


References

1.https://www.linkedin.com/company/payfirma-corporation/posts/?feedView=all

2.https://www.cardpaymentoptions.com/credit-card-processors/payfirma/

3.https://www.ivey.uwo.ca/media/3784553/payfirma-profile.pdf

4.https://www.bloomberg.com/profile/company/1272063D:CN

5.https://stackshare.io/payfirma/payfirma

6.https://www.finextra.com/blogposting/20117/top-fintech-companies-that-are-redefining-the-payment-domain

7.https://www.capterra.com/payment-processing-software/compare/179251-145264/PayPal-vs-Payfirma
